feat(docs): improve HPA documentation (#6091)
SeldonIO/seldon-core: docs-gb/kubernetes/hpa-rps-autoscaling.md

* Configuring HPA manifests to scale Models and the corresponding Server replicas based on the
  custom metrics

{% hint style="warning" %}
The Core 2 HPA-based autoscaling has the following constraints/limitations:

> - HPA-scaling only works for single-model serving (1-1 correspondence between models and servers). Multi-model serving autoscaling is supported via the existing features described [here](autoscaling.md). Those continue to be improved targeting seamless autoscaling of a wider set of models and workloads.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- HPA scaling is designed specifically for single-model serving, where there is a 1:1 correspondence between models and servers. Autoscaling for multi-model serving is supported by the existing [autoscaling feature](autoscaling.md). Ongoing improvements are focused on enhancing seamless autoscaling for a broader range of models and workloads.
```

Author: Will rephrase taking into account suggestions. Suggested rephrasing has parts that are incorrect or confusing from a technical perspective.

> - **Only custom metrics** coming from Prometheus are supported; In particular, native k8s resource metrics such as CPU or memory will not work. This is because of a limitation introduced by HPA which does not allow scaling of both Models and Servers based on metrics gathered from the same set of pods (one HPA manifest needs to "own" those pods).

Reviewer 2: should we mention that we are working to improve scaling and not requiring 2 HPAs (one for model and one for server)?

> - **Only custom metrics** coming from Prometheus are supported; In particular, native k8s resource metrics such as CPU or memory will not work. This is because of a limitation introduced by HPA which does not allow scaling of both Models and Servers based on metrics gathered from the same set of pods (one HPA manifest needs to "own" those pods).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Only custom metrics** from Prometheus are supported; native Kubernetes resource metrics like CPU and memory are not. This limitation arises from HPA's design, which does not allow simultaneous scaling of both models and servers using metrics from the same set of Pods because each HPA manifest must exclusively "own" the Pods it scales.
.
```

Author: Will rephrase taking into account suggestions. Section needs further clarification.

> - K8s clusters only allow for one provider of custom metrics to be installed at a time  (prometheus-adapter in Seldon's case). The K8s community is looking into ways of removing this limitation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Kubernetes clusters support only a single custom metrics provider at a time such as Prometheus Adapter in the case of Seldon. The Kubernetes community is actively exploring solutions to address this limitation.

```

Author: Will rephrase taking into account suggestions. Section needs further clarification.

* Configuring HPA manifests to scale Models and the corresponding Server replicas based on the
  custom metrics

{% hint style="warning" %}
The Core 2 HPA-based autoscaling has the following constraints/limitations:

>     * HPA-scaling only works for single-model serving (1-1 correspondence between models and servers).
>     Multi-model serving autoscaling is supported via the existing features described [here]
>     (autoscaling.md). Those continue to be improved targeting seamless autoscaling of a wider
>     set of models and workloads.
>     * **Only custom metrics** coming from Prometheus are supported; In particular, native k8s
>     resource metrics such as CPU or memory will not work. This is because of a limitation
>     introduced by HPA which does not allow scaling of both Models and Servers based on metrics
>     gathered from the same set of pods (one HPA manifest needs to "own" those pods).
>     * K8s clusters only allow for one provider of custom metrics to be installed at a time
>     (prometheus-adapter in Seldon's case). The K8s community is looking into ways of removing
>     this limitation.

Author: ```suggestion
    - HPA-scaling only works for single-model serving (1-1 correspondence between models and servers).
    Multi-model serving autoscaling is supported via the existing features described [here](autoscaling.md). Those continue to be improved targeting seamless autoscaling of a wider
    set of models and workloads.
    
    - **Only custom metrics** coming from Prometheus are supported; In particular, native k8s
    resource metrics such as CPU or memory will not work. This is because of a limitation
    introduced by HPA which does not allow scaling of both Models and Servers based on metrics
    gathered from the same set of pods (one HPA manifest needs to "own" those pods).
    
    - K8s clusters only allow for one provider of custom metrics to be installed at a time
    (prometheus-adapter in Seldon's case). The K8s community is looking into ways of removing
    this limitation.
```

* Configuring HPA manifests to scale Models and the corresponding Server replicas based on the
  custom metrics

{% hint style="warning" %}

> The Core 2 HPA-based autoscaling has the following constraints/limitations:
>     - HPA-scaling only works for single-model serving (1-1 correspondence between models and servers).
>     Multi-model serving autoscaling is supported via the existing features described [here](autoscaling.md). Those continue to be improved targeting seamless autoscaling of a wider
>     set of models and workloads.
>     
>     - **Only custom metrics** coming from Prometheus are supported; In particular, native k8s
>     resource metrics such as CPU or memory will not work. This is because of a limitation
>     introduced by HPA which does not allow scaling of both Models and Servers based on metrics
>     gathered from the same set of pods (one HPA manifest needs to "own" those pods).
>     
>     - K8s clusters only allow for one provider of custom metrics to be installed at a time
>     (prometheus-adapter in Seldon's case). The K8s community is looking into ways of removing
>     this limitation.

Author: ```suggestion
The Core 2 HPA-based autoscaling has the following constraints/limitations:

- HPA-scaling only works for single-model serving (1-1 correspondence between models and servers). Multi-model serving autoscaling is supported via the existing features described [here](autoscaling.md). Those continue to be improved targeting seamless autoscaling of a wider set of models and workloads.

- **Only custom metrics** coming from Prometheus are supported; In particular, native k8s resource metrics such as CPU or memory will not work. This is because of a limitation introduced by HPA which does not allow scaling of both Models and Servers based on metrics gathered from the same set of pods (one HPA manifest needs to "own" those pods).

- K8s clusters only allow for one provider of custom metrics to be installed at a time  (prometheus-adapter in Seldon's case). The K8s community is looking into ways of removing this limitation.
```

* Configuring HPA manifests to scale Models and the corresponding Server replicas based on the
  custom metrics

> {% hint style="warning" %}
> The Core 2 HPA-based autoscaling has the following constraints/limitations:
>     * HPA scaling only targets single-model serving, where there is a 1:1 correspondence between
>     models and servers. Autoscaling for multi-model serving (MMS) is supported for specific models
>     and workloads via the Core 2 native features described [here](autoscaling.md).
>     Significant improvements to MMS autoscaling are planned for future releases.
>     * **Only custom metrics** from Prometheus are supported. Native Kubernetes
>     resource metrics such as CPU or memory are not. This limitation exists because of HPA's
>     design: In order to prevent multiple HPA CRs from issuing conflicting scaling instructions,
>     each HPA CR must exclusively control a set of pods which is disjoint from the pods
>     controlled by other HPA CRs. In Seldon Core 2, CPU/memory metrics can be used to scale the
>     number of Server replicas via HPA. However, this also means that the CPU/memory metrics
>     from the same set of pods can no longer be used to scale the number of model replicas. We
>     are working on improvements in Core 2 to allow both servers and models to be scaled based on
>     a single HPA manifest, targeting the Model CR.
>     * Each Kubernetes cluster supports only one active custom metrics provider. If your cluster
>     already uses a custom metrics provider different from `prometheus-adapter`, it
>     will need to be removed before being able to scale Core 2 models and servers via HPA. The
>     Kubernetes is actively exploring solutions for allowing multiple custom metrics providers to
>     coexist.
> {% endhint %}

Author: ```suggestion
{% hint style="warning" %}
The Core 2 HPA-based autoscaling has the following constraints/limitations:
    - HPA scaling only targets single-model serving, where there is a 1:1 correspondence between
    models and servers. Autoscaling for multi-model serving (MMS) is supported for specific models
    and workloads via the Core 2 native features described [here](autoscaling.md).
    Significant improvements to MMS autoscaling are planned for future releases.
    - **Only custom metrics** from Prometheus are supported. Native Kubernetes
    resource metrics such as CPU or memory are not. This limitation exists because of HPA's
    design: In order to prevent multiple HPA CRs from issuing conflicting scaling instructions,
    each HPA CR must exclusively control a set of pods which is disjoint from the pods
    controlled by other HPA CRs. In Seldon Core 2, CPU/memory metrics can be used to scale the
    number of Server replicas via HPA. However, this also means that the CPU/memory metrics
    from the same set of pods can no longer be used to scale the number of model replicas. We
    are working on improvements in Core 2 to allow both servers and models to be scaled based on
    a single HPA manifest, targeting the Model CR.
    - Each Kubernetes cluster supports only one active custom metrics provider. If your cluster
    already uses a custom metrics provider different from `prometheus-adapter`, it
    will need to be removed before being able to scale Core 2 models and servers via HPA. The
    Kubernetes is actively exploring solutions for allowing multiple custom metrics providers to
    coexist.
{% endhint %}
```

In this example, a single rule is defined to fetch the `seldon_model_infer_total` metric

> from Prometheus, compute its rate over a 1 minute window, and expose this to k8s as the `infer_rps`

Author: ```suggestion
from Prometheus, compute its rate over a 1 minute window, and expose this to Kubernetes as the `infer_rps`
```

In this example, a single rule is defined to fetch the `seldon_model_infer_total` metric
from Prometheus, compute its rate over a 1 minute window, and expose this to k8s as the `infer_rps`
metric, with aggregations available at model, server, inference server pod and namespace level.

When HPA requests the `infer_rps` metric via the custom metrics API for a specific model,
prometheus-adapter issues a Prometheus query in line with what it is defined in its config.

For the configuration in our example, the query for a model named `irisa0` in namespace
`seldon-mesh` would be:

```
sum by (model) (
  rate (
    seldon_model_infer_total{model="irisa0", namespace="seldon-mesh"}[1m]
  )
)
```

> Before updating the ConfigMap, it is important to sanity-check the query by executing it against

Author: ```suggestion
Before configuring prometheus-adapter via the ConfigMap, it is important to sanity-check the query by executing it against
```
